hello it's didi again welcome to Dedes
Mediterranean kitchen today I'm going to
teach you how to make a great dish it's
a side dish it's a dip they can put it
on pita bread you can do whatever you
want with it
it's called hummus this is a form of a
chickpea spread with some great sesame
seed paste some garlic some lemon juice
it's just great now you can serve this
on pita bread you can put it on chicken
you can dip it with vegetables I've seen
this in all kinds of different forms
what you want to do is start off with a
can of garbanzo beans or chickpeas now I
different you know different stores
different labels call it different
things but you want to look for garbanzo
beans or chickpeas you want to do is
give them a quick rinse what I'm going
to do is just turn off the water so they
were packed in quick rinse in some water
not a big deal very easy to do see our
mince them you want to add this to a
food processor now some people use
blenders some people use food products
to stores whatever is then I'll mush it
up um add this to the food processor
next ingredient you're going to add is
tahini it's felt tah I and I this is a
sesame seed paste you don't want to give
it a little bit of a mix just because
the oil from the sesame seeds goes to
the top so give it a nice little mix I'm
not a big measuring person but you want
to add about fourth cup to a half cup
depending on your taste of the tahini
mixture you can just add it directly to
or you can measure it
next thing great you want to add which
keeps the the homos really moist and
from chunking up is some yogurt or sour
cream you want about you want to add
about 1/2 cup to 1/4 cup depending on
texture we're gonna start by heading
about 1/4 cup of it and then depending
on the consistency we can add more you
want to add about 3 or 4 just leaves of
mint fresh mint gives it a really nice
flavor you really don't see it in the
mixture it's just a little hidden flavor
that's in there you just add those
directly to the food processor another
thing you want to add is a juice of one
lemon again lemon is a great thing it
gives it a little bit of a zest and then
the most important ingredient is garlic
now what I did is I have two cloves of
garlic you want to add some salt to the
garlic because when you have it in the
mortar it helps mash them up a lot about
you want to add about half a teaspoon of
the mint of the salt mash it up just
like that
just add it now you want to have you're
going to want to give the mixture let it
mix for I'd say about two minutes before
stirring it or combining it
when it's being processed the Tajin egg
makes it a little bit thicker so again
depending on the consistency you can add
a little bit of water to it a couple
tablespoons I'm going to finish
processing this and then decide on that
all right just remove the top and with a
spatula don't use any metal spoons or
anything plastic spatula you can check
the consistency of it let me show you
see right there it's a little bit thick
I think I'm going to add maybe two
tablespoons of cold water just helps the
texture again you still have that fourth
cup of yogurt left over so we're going
to give this a taste and see what else
it needs
needs a little bit more lemon what you
can do you can see that your consistency
is right you don't want to make it more
watery you can add some citric acid
citric acid is I guess a form of lemon
that's concentrated you can add but I
have a teaspoon of this you don't want
to add too much because then it'll be
too lemony just going to add a half
teaspoon of this to the processor the
salt was fine when I tasted it give it
one more taste and see how it is now
amazing perfect again depending on what
you like you can add some more salt
giving you a less garlic you can add
more garlic we have more lemon juice
it's all depends on what you like those
are the main ingredients that I gave you
I'm going to show you a real nice way
serve it with a spatula yep I get most
of it depending on the size or a plate
maybe not all of it you can serve it in
a dip bowl you can serve out a plate
like this make it all fancy any way you
like you want to spread it out I'll
spread it out in the dish just like this
finding on the sides of the dish that
you use why not leave a little bit of it
in the middle and I'll show you what we
can do with that
after you spread it out in the plate you
want to chop off but two tablespoons of
some parsley what I do is I put this in
the center of it or you can put it along
the side depending on what you want to
do you can get some olives decorated
with some olives some radishes whatever
you want again depending on your
preference you can use either cayenne
pepper or paprika I accused pepper II
got this autumn take away from the
flavor of the the actual dip this put it
along the sides gives a great color and
really doesn't take away from the taste
of it then a final thing is the olive
oil again you're going to want to use
extra virgin olive oil just put it up
around it keeps the dip moist and it's a
nice flavor to it just like that and
that's it now imagine serving this to
your friends how great does that look
enjoy it and tune in next time for the
next recipe at DD's mediterranean
kitchen
you